GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
AUGUST 19 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
WITH ALLEGIANCE
BY UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE TO LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
WHEN OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL COMES FROM
TRADITION HERE COMES MEMBER
HARRISON HERE COUNCIL MEMBER
SONG HERE COMES MARY WATSON.
HERE COMES MARY DENHA.
HERE COMES FROM RAGAZZI
EVERYONE HERE MARY TAYLOR HERE
COMES MY WRITER.
HERE COMES MY BRACKMAN.
HERE COMES FROM HER BRIGS HERE
COMES FROM HERE FOR NOW WE HAVE
A QUORUM OF EMOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR EYER SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER RIGS DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR
POSED THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
KNOW THE MAYOR TODAY WE HAVE
THE PLEASURE OF AN INTRODUCTION
FROM THE ANN ARBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
>> COME ON DOWN, MR. MAYOR.
MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBERS
OF COUNCIL.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JEFF PHIFER.
I AM THE MANAGER OF PUBLIC
AFFAIRS AND COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT AT THE RIDE SUBBING
IN TONIGHT FOR OUR CEO MATT
CARPENTER WHO WAS NOT ABLE TO
BE HERE TO PROVIDE A FEW
UPDATES FROM THE AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY FIRST
,AS MANY OF YOU KNOW, WE HAD
SOME EXCITING NEWS HAPPEN TO
THE RIGHT IN RELATION TO ZERO
EMISSIONS BUSSES.
IN APRIL WE SUBMITTED AN
APPLICATION TO THE FDA FOR A NO
GRANT APPLICATION AND HAPPY TO
ANNOUNCE IN EARLY JULY WE HEARD
FROM THE FDA THAT WE WERE BEING
AWARDED TWENTY FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS AS PART OF OUR GRANT
APPLICATION.
VERY EXCITING FOR THE RIDE
REALLY REALLY GREAT THING AND
WANT TO SEND OUR THANKS TO
MAYOR TAYLOR CITY COUNCIL AND
CITY ADMINISTRATOR FOR ALL YOUR
HELP IN OUR GRANT APPLICATION
IN EARLY JULY WE HELD AN EVENT
AT OUR HEADQUARTERS AT TWENTY
SEVEN HUNDRED SOUTH INDUSTRIAL
FEATURING THE ACTING
ADMINISTRATOR VERONICA
VANDERPOOL WHO HANDED US A VERY
BIG CARTOONISH CHECK FOR TWENTY
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS.
I'M NOT SURE THAT OUR BANK WILL
TAKE IT BUT VERY EXCITING
NEWS .
I WANTED TO SEND OUR THANKS TO
MAYOR TAYLOR AND COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR THEIR ATTENDANCE
AT OUR EVENT AGAIN VERY
EXCITING.
SECONDLY, WE WANT TO ANNOUNCE
THAT THE RIGHT IS PROUD TO
CONTINUE DELIVERING ON OUR
PROMISES MADE TO OUR VOTERS IN
OUR TWENTY TWENTY TWO MILLION
PROPOSAL STARTING NEXT MONDAY
AUGUST TWENTY SIXTH WE WILL BE
EXPANDING OUR SERVICE BASICALLY
OFFERING MORE SERVICE MORE
OFTEN WITH THAT OUR WEEKDAY
FIXTURE OUR SERVICES ARE GOING
TO START A LITTLE BIT EARLIER
AND GO A LITTLE BIT LATER AND
WE'RE ALSO INCREASING FREQUENCY
IN OUR HOURS WE CAN SERVICES AS
WELL AND ALSO WILL BE EXPANDING
FREQUENCY AND CAPACITY FOR OUR
LATE NIGHT AND HOLIDAY SERVICES
SUCH AS FLEX RIDE WANTED TO
PROVIDE AN UPDATE WE'VE SEEN
REALLY GREAT RIDERSHIP ON OUR
WASHINGTON EXPRESS ROUTE.
YOU'LL REMEMBER THAT WAS OUR
ROUTE THAT LAUNCHED EARLIER
THIS SPRING BASICALLY A FIXED
ROUTE SERVICE WITH LIMITED
STOPS CONNECTING PUBLIC TRANSIT
CENTER IN ANN ARBOR TO THE
YPSILANTI TRANSIT CENTER.
WE'VE SEEN RIDERSHIP WITH THAT
AND PART OF THAT WE'RE
CONTINUING TO BUILD BUILD
RIDERSHIP AND LET FOLKS KNOW
ABOUT THE ROUTE WE'RE ACTUALLY
DOING A GIVEAWAY CURRENTLY FOR
A FEW 30 DAY PASSES.
MORE DETAILS CAN BE FOUND ON
OUR SOCIAL MEDIA PAGE AND
WEBSITE BASICALLY REQUIRES
FOLKS TO FILL OUT A FORM AND
UPLOAD A PHOTO EITHER ON THE
BUS OR AT THE BUS STOP THAT
WILL GO FOR THE NEXT FEW WEEKS.
SO WE ENCOURAGE YOU TO LET YOUR
CONSTITUENTS KNOW ABOUT THAT.
LASTLY, WE'VE BEEN WORKING
CLOSELY WITH THE CITY AND OTHER
STAKEHOLDERS IN PREPARATION FOR
ANOTHER FOOTBALL SEASON HERE IN
ANN ARBOR.
WE'RE HAPPY TO ANNOUNCE ONCE
AGAIN WE'LL BE OFFERING
FOOTBALL RIDE AS AN OPTION FOR
FOLKS TO GET TO AND FROM THE
GAME.
>> SO WITH THAT I HOPE YOU GUYS
HAVE A GREAT MEETING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC AND
RESERVE TIME.
PUBLIC AND RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
BOTH ONLINE AND HERE IN THE
ROOM WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK AND SO PLEASE
PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME
OUR CLERK ALL THE TIME CLOCK
WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS OUR REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS ADEL
POGGIO
THE OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
TOM STOLLBERG
.
MR. DAHLBERG, CAN YOU RERUN
YOUR COMMENTARY?
>> WE ONLY PICKED YOU UP JUST
NOW.
CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW
?
>> HELLO.
YES YOU ARE YOU ARE NOW AUDIBLE
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'D LIKE TO START BY THREE.
I'D BE ONE BY THE COMMISSION
RIGHT NOW AN ISSUE WITH TOO
MANY RECUSAL SO PERHAPS YOU CAN
BLACK COMMISSIONERS WHO HAVE
LEFT LIKELIHOOD OF CONFLICT
OF INTEREST AND THAT'S LIKELY
TO HAVE TO RECUSE THEMSELVES
THE TWO FOR FIFTEEN MONTHS
WASHINGTON AS A BROKER I'M VERY
FAMILIAR WITH WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
BROKERS AREN'T TOLD ALL THE
INFORMATION AND THEN IT GETS
LATE AND IF TRANSACTION AND
THERE'S DISCLOSURES THAT
WEREN'T MADE EARLIER AND I
THINK THAT THEN SOME THINGS
GLOSS OVER IN THE 415 WEST
WASHINGTON DESCRIPTION THAT
SHOULD BE HIGHLIGHTED THE
BROKERS SO THEY CAN PROPERLY DO
THEIR JOB.
WE KNOW THAT IT DOESN'T MEET
FEDERAL AND LOCAL POLICY AND
YOU'VE WRITTEN THAT IN DETAIL
AND AT LENGTH FROM YOUR
FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
I RECENTLY RETIRED ONE AT THE
CITY THAT IT DIDN'T MEET THE
LETTER AND INTENT OF THE MDC IN
TERMS OF PDS AND PREMIUM HIKES
ET CETERA AND THAT ALSO IT HAVE
NOT FORMALLY BEEN TO THE FCC
FOR APPROVAL YET AND THAT WHEN
THE WORKING SESSION THAT WAS AT
THE FCC THEY INDICATED THAT
THEY WOULD NOT APPROVE WHAT WAS
PUT BEFORE THEM THAT BE VERY
IMPORTANT FOR ANY PROSPECTIVE
BUYER TO KNOW THAT THE BROKER
TO KNOW THAT BEFORE IT GETS TO
THE END OF A NEGOTIATION AND
THE POTENTIAL BUYERS ARE
DISAPPOINTED TO FIND OUT NEW
INFORMATION NEAR THE END OF THE
PROCESS.
AND ALSO I TALK ABOUT DC THREE,
THE HOME BUSINESS EXPANSION.
I REALLY AM IN FAVOR OF THIS
AND AS A MATTER OF FACT I'VE
GOT PROPERTY THAT I'M A PART
OWNER THAT WE'VE IDENTIFIED
THAT WE'D LIKE TO BUILD
RESIDENTIAL OVER RETAIL.
>> WE'VE GOT A DEVELOPMENT
PARTNER.
IT'S ALREADY BEEN SHOWN THIS
PROPERTY AND IT'S SHOWN
INTEREST IN IT.
BUT I'D WE WERE EXPECTING TO
WAIT FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVISION PROCESS TO BE DONE AND
THEN LIKELY HAVE THAT THE
SOMETHING THAT WE'VE BEEN ABLE
TO DO.
I'D LIKE TO GO THROUGH THAT
PROCESS AND NOT JUMP THROUGH
THAT PROCESS WHICH THIS
RESOLUTION SEEMS TO DO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVISION
PROCESS IS WHERE THE COMMUNITY
EXPRESSED THE DESIRE SOMETIMES
THAT COMMUNICATION WITH THE
CITY THE PLANNING COMMISSION,
CITY COUNCIL AND COLLECTIVELY
WE COME UP WITH THE VISION AND
REVISE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND THEN REVISE OUR ZONING
CODE AFTER THAT BECAUSE THE
ZONING CODE IS A CODIFICATION
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN INTO
ENFORCEABLE LEGAL LANGUAGE.
>> SO OR SKIPPING A STEP HERE
AND I REALLY WANT TO SEE THIS
HAPPEN BUT I REALLY WANT TO DO
IT IN THE RIGHT WAY.
SO LET'S LET'S NOT FORGET THIS
STEP THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT THAT
THE PUBLIC IS PROPERLY ENGAGED
IN THE PROCESS AS THE LAW
DEFINED HOW SUPPOSED TO BE DONE
AND THIS SEEMS TO BE A
WORKAROUND FOR THAT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO ADDRESS K12
WHICH IS TO REPLACE TWO OFFICER
POSITIONS WITH A LIEUTENANT
POSITION I THINK THIS IS AN
EXCELLENT IDEA.
THIS SHOWS EXCELLENT MANAGEMENT
SKILLS, CREATIVE THINKING AND I
AM TOLD THAT THE CHIEF HAS A
LONG TERM PLAN THAT'S ALSO
GOING TO ADDRESS THE LONG TERM
FINANCIAL IMPACT BECAUSE
OF COURSE IS GOING TO RETIRE
SOONER THAN TWO OFFICERS WOULD
ANYWAY.
I'LL LEAVE THAT UP TO THE
SECOND.
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THAT THE
MAYOR FORM A BLUE RIBBON PANEL
WITH THE EXPLICIT GOAL
OF WORKING ON A PLAN TO AVOID A
CITY INCOME TAX.
I MENTIONED THIS MANY TIMES
I'VE BEEN ON THE SCHOOL BOARD.
I'VE BEEN IN OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS AND LOOKED AT THE
FINANCIALS AND WHEN YOU'RE
SPENDING MORE MONEY THAN YOU'RE
TAKING IN, IT'S INEVITABLE THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A
FINANCIAL ISSUE.
SO LET'S GET A BLUE RIBBON
COMMISSION COMMITTEE OF EXPERTS
WHO CAN PROVIDE SOME INPUT ON
THIS AND ONE OF THE REASONS I
WAS THINKING ABOUT THIS IS
BECAUSE WE ALL KNOW THAT THE
ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS HAD A
FINANCIAL CRISIS WHEN I LOOKED
AT THE SCHOOL BOARD CANDIDATES
WHO WERE RUNNING THE MAJORITY
HAD A MANAGER OR A FINANCIAL
BACKGROUND AND WOULD BRING
EXPERTIZE I THINK THEY CAME
FORWARD BECAUSE OF THE CRISIS.
SO RATHER THAN WAIT UNTIL THE
CITY HAS A CRISIS, LET'S BE
PROACTIVE AND LET'S BRING THAT
SKILL SET IN NOW WE DID THAT IN
THE NUMBER OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WHEN WE WERE BUILDING SKYLINE
IT WAS A YEAR BEHIND SCHEDULE
AS WELL AS TEN MILLION DOLLARS
OVER BUDGET AND WE BROUGHT IN A
BLUE RIBBON PANEL.
>> WE WERE ABLE TO RESOLVE
THOSE ISSUES AND WENT ON TO GO
OUT FOR A SECOND PUBLIC BOND
AND WE'RE NOW TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF THAT.
TWO QUICK THINGS.
ONE IS I TALKED TO THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND I WILL BRING
HIM AN ENLARGED MAP THAT
CLEARLY SHOWS THE PUBLIC
WALKWAYS THAT ARE OWNED BY THE
CITY IN THE KINGS SCHOOL AREA.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY WE HAVE
CROSSWALKS AND SIDEWALKS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY THAT ARE
DANGEROUS DUE TO OVERGROWN
VEGETATION.
I'VE TALKED TO SOME OF THE
STAFF.
THEY DON'T EVEN HAVE THE TOOLS
THAT ARE NEEDED TO PERFORM SOME
OF THE CORNER CLEARANCE.
>> LASTLY, WE LOST ANOTHER
COMMUNITY MEMBER OVER THE
WEEKEND AND WE KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED AND WE KNOW WHAT SHE
DID.
BUT VISION ZERO CALLS FOR
DESIGNING INTERSECTIONS AND
DESIGNING CROSSWALKS SO THAT
MORE THAN ONE PROBLEM HAS TO
OCCUR.
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN IN THAT
AREA.
WE HAVE POOR LIGHTING SIDEWALKS
.
IT'S A NARROW DIRT ROAD WITH
STREET PARKING.
THERE ARE A LOT OF ISSUES LET'S
SPEND OUR MONEY ON FIXING OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE RATHER THAN
CONSULTANTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SPEAKER HENRY HERSKOVITS.
>> GOOD EVENING.
I'D LIKE TO CONTINUE OUR
DISCUSSION ON THE DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN FUMIGATION GAS CHAMBERS
AND THE ALLEGED HOMICIDAL GAS
CHAMBERS.
OUR STUDENTS ARE BEING FORCED
TO LEARN ABOUT MY SOURCE AGAIN
IS NICHOLAS CALDAS DRUMS
BREAKING THE SPELL THE
HOLOCAUST MYTH AND REALITY AND
I OFFER TO PURCHASE A COPY
OF THIS BOOK TO EACH CITY
COUNCILMAN HERE ALTHOUGH I
WON'T PURCHASE IT THROUGH
AMAZON BECAUSE IT'S BEEN
FIGURATIVE BURNED COUNCIL'S
REACTIONS TO MY TALKS ARE NOT
UNIQUE.
AFREN CLAIMED SHE STOOD IN A
HOMICIDAL GAS CHAMBER AND WHEN
I INFORMED HER THAT SHE STOOD
IN A POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION
OF A HOMICIDAL GAS CHAMBER, SHE
SAID THIS CONVERSATION IS OVER.
THEY SAY YOU CAN'T ARGUE
SOMEBODY'S POSITION.
THEY DIDN'T ARGUE THEMSELVES
INTO AND THIS IS A PRIME
EXAMPLE OF THAT PHENOMENON.
THE COMPANY THAT BUILT THE
FUMIGATION CHAMBERS WAS CALLED
GESHE AND THEY WERE VERY PROUD
OF THEIR PRODUCT BECAUSE IT
EFFICIENTLY SAVED LIVES AS WAS
ITS PURPOSE.
>> THE CHAMBERS FEATURED A
REMOTELY CONTROLLED CAN OPENER
OPEN CANS OF ZYKLON B SO THAT
THE OPERATOR WOULDN'T HAVE TO
WEAR A GAS MASK.
THE GAS PELLETS WERE THEN
DUMPED DOWN A SHORT CHUTE INTO
A WAITING BASKET THEN HEATERS
WERE TURNED ON BECAUSE HYDROGEN
CYANIDE PELLETS ARE INERT BELOW
ITS BOILING POINT WHICH IS
ABOUT SEVENTY EIGHT DEGREES
FAHRENHEIT.
THEN THE FANS CAME ON TO EVENLY
DISTRIBUTE THE GAS SO THAT IT
WOULD REACH THE ICE HIDING IN
THE CLOTHING AND BEDDING WHICH
WERE HUNG IN THE ROOM AFTER ONE
TO TWO HOURS THE LETHAL GAS WAS
FORCED, VENTED UP A PIPE AND
INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
THEN THE CHAMBER WAS VENTILATED
WITH FRESH AIR FOR ABOUT
FIFTEEN MINUTES AFTER WHICH IT
WAS SAFE TO OPEN THE CLOTHING.
BEDDING WERE HUNG OUTDOORS TO
AIR THEN RETURNED TO THE CAMP.
INMATES BUG FREE THE ROOMS
OF THE ALLEGED HOMICIDAL GAS
CHAMBERS HAVE NO SUCH DEVICES
PRESENT, NO INDUCTION CHUTES,
NO HEATERS FANS NOR EXHAUST
PIPING.
CASUAL OBSERVATION SUPPORTS
REVISIONIST CLAIMS THAT THE
ROOMS OFFERED TO THE PUBLIC IN
GERMANY AND POLAND ARE NOT AND
COULD NOT BE THE HOMICIDAL GAS
CHAMBERS THEY CLAIM TO BE MY
HOPE IS THAT OUR STUDENTS ARE
BEING PRESENTED WITH FACTS
LIKE
THE ONES I BRING TO COUNCIL
TONIGHT SO THAT THEY CAN DRAW
THEIR OWN CONCLUSIONS.
>> THANK YOU MICKEY.
GOOD EVENING RALPH KEY FIFTH
WARD.
I ALSO WANTED TO JUST EXPRESS
SADNESS AND DISMAY AT THE
RECENT PEDESTRIAN DEATH ON
RAVENWOOD.
IT'S DIFFICULT TO GET A TOPIC
THAT I'M INTO GIVEN WHAT
HAPPENED THERE BUT I'M HERE TO
EXPRESS DISAPPOINTMENT IN THE
DECISION MAKING PROCESS.
RAY STREET LIGHTING I SHARE
APPRECIATION FOR STAFF GETTING
A MAJOR GRANT FOR A BIG
IMPROVEMENT AND I COMMEND THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO ASKED GOOD
QUESTIONS BUT YOU ALLOWED STAFF
TO SNORE.
YOU RE FURTHER COST SAVINGS THE
STAFF BURDEN IGNORING THE
NATIONAL STANDARDS AND FAILING
TO PROVIDE ANY BASIS FOR
OVERRIDING THEM.
THE CONTRAST BETWEEN JULY AND
AUGUST MEETINGS ASTONISHING IN
JULY EVERYONE ADVOCATED 29 WATT
BULBS IN NEIGHBORHOODS FOR MANY
GOOD REASONS.
YOU DIRECTED STAFF TO FIND A
WAY TO DO IT.
INSTEAD THEY FED YOU BAD INFO
WHICH YOU DIDN'T QUESTION.
THAT'S AN OVERSIGHT FAILURE.
LET'S TALK COST SAVINGS.
IT'S SIMPLE GOOGLE OR CALL MPAC
AND SEARCH DETI STREETLIGHTS
AND THERE'S A MONTHLY AVERAGE
CHARGE TO DO THE MATH TOOK US
AN HOUR ANNUAL SAVINGS FOR TWO
THOUSAND BULBS WITH SIXTY FIVE
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED AND FIFTY
GRAND OVER TEN YEARS.
HOW COULD THE STAFF CHARGED
WITH BIDDING GETTING THE BEST
DEAL NOT KNOW HOW CHARGES AFTER
ALL STAFF IT ESTIMATED THREE
HUNDRED K FOR THE FIFTY EIGHT
WATT PLAN THAT WAS BASED ON
LOWER WATTAGE BUT STAFF SAID IN
JULY WE DON'T KNOW WRONG
OBVIOUSLY OTHER STAFFERS DID WE
HAVE TO ASK WRONG AND THEN SAID
NOTHING THREE WEEKS UNTIL THE
END OF THE AUGUST MEETING
SEEING TOLD US FURTHER SAVINGS
ARE NEGLIGIBLE WRONG AGAIN YOU
DIDN'T QUESTION IT AND YOU LEFT
BIG ENERGY SAVINGS ON THE TABLE
TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
KILOWATT HOURS PER YEAR EVEN
RUNNING FORTY EIGHT WATTS THE
INVENTORY ONE POINT FIVE FTE TO
MANAGE ONE ITEM IS ABSURD RIGHT
NOW STAFF MANAGES ADT BULBS
TYPES PLUS OTHER CITY WAS GOING
FOR TO BE SIX OR SEVEN YES TO
IMPLEMENT WILL NEED EXTRA HELP
BUT WITH BULBS GUARANTEED FOR
TEN YEARS YEARS TWO TO TEN WILL
REQUIRE LITTLE OR NO HELP
REQUIRES A TEN PERCENT MINIMUM
SO FOR TWO THOUSAND BULBS YOU
ALWAYS HAVE TWO HUNDRED.
THAT'S MORE THAN YOU EVER NEED
EVEN WITH LIGHTNING AND REX YOU
JUST REPLENISH UP TO THE
MINIMUM.
THAT'S AN ABSOLUTE NO BRAINER.
STAFF DIDN'T BRING UP SAFETY IN
A REAL WAY TILL AUGUST.
THEY PROVIDED NO BASIS TO
OVERRIDE THE STANDARDS AND
PUBLIC INPUT STAFF INITIALLY
MISREPRESENTED STAFF DIDN'T
IDENTIFY WHO RAISED CONCERNS SO
THERE'S NO WAY OF KNOWING THEIR
CREDENTIALS THIS THE CHART WAS
MISLEADING.
YOU SAY THE FORTY EIGHT WATT
SWITCHES WHEN IT'S A THIRD OF A
LOAF.
NO ONE EVEN MENTIONED A BETTER
SOLUTION.
THIRTY NINE WATTS WHICH HAD
BEEN TWO THIRDS OF THE LOAD
SUPPORTING STAFF IS GOOD IDEA.
GREAT CODLING IS NOT YOU'RE A
CEO IN A BOARD CHARGED WITH
OVERSIGHT.
>> PLEASE DO YOUR JOB.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EVAN
SOLIDNESS
.
FOR DECADES I'VE WORKED BEHIND
THE SCENES ON FINANCIAL
REGULATORY ISSUES WITH BRITISH
MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT AS A
WHISTLEBLOWER WRITING TECHNICAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND EXPLOITING
SHADY SHADY MARKET PRACTICES TO
POLITICIANS AND REGULATORS.
I SAY BEHIND THE SCENES BECAUSE
I DON'T RELISH PUBLIC SPEAKING
BUT I'VE BEEN DRIVEN TO SPEAK
TO COUNSEL TO PROTEST IN FRONT
OF CITY HALL IN DEFENSE OF MY
FAMILY TO CONTINUE MY
PRESENTATION OF TWO SESSIONS
AGO WHO BENEFITS FROM REPEATED
ECONOMIC ASSAULTS AGAINST MY
FAMILY BY A ROGUE CITY
OFFICIALS?
THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY'S
FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET IS BY
FAR THE LARGEST BENEFICIARY
OF MY BEING TOO TIED UP
FIGHTING FOR ECONOMIC SURVIVAL
TO DO ANYTHING ELSE ON BEHALF
OF UK SHADOW CHANCELLOR, FORMER
UK SHADOW CHANCELLOR OF THE
EXCHEQUER JOHN MCDONNELL, I
SURELY TICKED OFF SOME THE
FINANCIAL INDUSTRY BACK IN
OCTOBER 2019 WHEN I INTERVIEWED
THE CURRENT GOVERNOR OF THE
BANK OF ENGLAND, ANDREW BAILEY
,THEN CEO OF THE FINANCIAL
CONDUCT AUTHORITY REGARDING THE
FCA FAILURE TO MANDATE TIME
STAMPS FOR CUSTOMER FOREIGN
EXCHANGE TRADES.
THE FCA IS THE BRITISH VERSION
OF OUR SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION TIMESTAMPS CREATE AN
AUDIT TRAIL MAKING IT RISKY TO
PILFER PENSION FUND MONEY BY
MISPRICING CURRENCY TRADES AS
WAS THE CASE WITH BANK OF NEW
YORK MELLON AND 714 MILLION
DOLLAR FEDERAL CURRENCY FRAUD
SETTLEMENT WITHOUT MANDATED
TIMESTAMPS I WOULDN'T BE
SURPRISED THAT THEFT FROM
PENSION AND OTHER FUNDS EXCEEDS
A BILLION DOLLARS ANNUALLY.
MICHIGAN PENSIONS ARE EXPOSED
TO SUCH THEFT TO BITTER IRONY
THAT MY FAMILY HAS BEEN BOTH
ATTACKED AND LEFT UNPROTECTED
BY MY HOME TOWN OFFICIALS WHOSE
PENSIONS I'VE ACTED TO PROTECT.
WELL WE HAVE NO PENSIONS OF OUR
OWN MORE IRRITATING TO GLOBAL
ROGUES AS WHAT I DID IN OUR TWO
THOUSAND FIFTEEN MEETING AT THE
BANK OF ENGLAND WHEN THEN
DEPUTY GOVERNOR FOR MARKETS THE
NEW SHAFEEK SAID THAT SHE'D NOT
RECEIVED ANY COMPLAINTS FROM
MARKET PARTICIPANTS REGARDING
THE LACK OF A TIME STAMP
MANDATE.
I THEN HAD THE POOR FORM TO
RAISE MY HAND AND SAY I'M
COMPLAINING AND I WAS A LONDON
BASED FUND MANAGER FOLLOWING MY
COMPLAINTS, SEVERAL
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TIMESTAMPS
APPEARED IN THE UK FAIR AND
EFFECTIVE MARKETS REVIEW AS
WELL AS A RECOMMENDATION IN THE
EFFECTS GLOBAL CODE WHICH
PURPORTS TO PROTECT INVESTORS
FROM UNSCRUPULOUS FINANCIERS.
IN SPITE OF ALL THIS TO MY
KNOWLEDGE NO ENFORCEABLE
MANDATE WAS IMPLEMENTED TO
PROTECT CONSUMERS.
SUCH REGULATORY FAILURES ARE AN
INDICATION OF THE MORALLY
CORRUPTING POWER OF THE
FINANCIAL INDUSTRY.
ANOTHER TERM FOR THIS IS
CORPORATE CAPTURE MEANING
REGULATORS CAPTURED BY
CORPORATE INTERESTS CLEARLY A
PROBLEM IN MICHIGAN TO TO HEAR
IT FROM A MORE FAMOUS SOURCE
WATCH INSIDE JOB, A MOVIE
NARRATED BY MATT DAMON ON THE
ARCHITECTURE OF THE GREAT
RECESSION.
EVAN FROM WARD FIVE AND I
PUBLISHED THAT OMBUDSPERSON
REPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GOODMAN.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE RIGHT.
>> THIS IS ADAM GOODMAN.
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU FROM THE
FIFTH WARD.
AT THE LAST MEETING WE TALKED A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT PLANS BUT
TONIGHT I WANT TO ADDRESS THE
VAST MAJORITY OF ROADS IN OUR
CITY THAT ARE ALREADY UNDER
CITY JURISDICTION.
IT'S ALMOST TEN YEARS AGO THAT
WE SET OUR VISION ZERO GOAL TO
ELIMINATE FATAL AND SERIOUS
INJURY CRASHES BY TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE AND AT THIS POINT IT WAS
CLEAR THAT WE WILL FAIL TO MEET
THIS GOAL.
YOU MAY HAVE HEARD WE HELD A
PROTEST OUTSIDE CITY HALL LAST
MONTH BECAUSE OF THIS AND I
THINK YOU CAN EXPECT THERE WILL
BE MORE.
NOW TO BE FAIR, ANN ARBOR HAS
DONE SOME GOOD THINGS THE RATE
OF SEVERE PEDESTRIAN AND BIKE
CRASHES HAS RISEN DRAMATICALLY
ACROSS THE US WHILE IN THE CITY
IT'S REALLY REMAINED BASICALLY
FLAT THAT SORT OF POSITIVE SIGN
WE'RE DOING LESS BADLY THAN
MOST BUT ALSO NOT ENOUGH NOT
EVEN CLOSE.
SO I THINK IT'S WORTH ASKING
WHAT HAVE WE ACTUALLY DONE WITH
THE LAST ALMOST TEN YEARS?
WELL, ONE THING WE'VE DONE
WE'VE MADE A LOT OF PLANS SO
STARTING WITH TWENTY WE GET THE
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY TASK FORCE
REPORT AND THAT LED US TO START
WITH A TARGET.
IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN WE GET
ANOTHER RESOLUTION REAFFIRMING
VISION ZERO TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
WE KICKED OFF A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN THAT TOOK UNTIL TWENTY ONE
WHEN THAT PLAN WAS FINALIZED.
THAT'S ALREADY SIX YEARS INTO
OUR RIGHT TIME TO START
IMPLEMENTING.
WELL NO THEN WE HAD TO SET UP A
VISION IMPLEMENTATION PLANNING
EFFORT THAT TOOK ANOTHER TWO
YEARS NOW LAST MONTH WE
APPROVED ANOTHER CONTRACT WHICH
SEEMS TO BE ABOUT I DON'T KNOW
DEVELOPING MORE PLANS ON HOW TO
IMPLEMENT OUR IMPLEMENTATION
PLAN.
ALSO WE DID THIS LITTLE
ACCOUNTABILITY STUDY AND WE'RE
DOING THIS DOWNTOWN CIRCULATION
THAT SO WHAT MY QUESTION IS
MOST OF THESE PLANS LOOK GREAT
BUT WHEN DO WE GET TO STOP
PLANNING AND START DOING
BECAUSE SURE SEEMS LIKE WE'VE
SPENT THE LAST TEN YEARS IN AN
ENDLESS CYCLE OF PLANS AND MORE
PLANS PROBABLY MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS WITH NOT A LOT OF ON
THE GROUND IMPROVEMENTS TO
ACTUALLY SHOW FOR IT.
NOW YES, WE NEED TO DO PLANNING
FOR BIG CAPITAL PROJECTS BUT
THAT'S WHY OUR COMPREHENSIVE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN THAT I
MENTIONED THAT IS ONE OF ITS
KEY RECOMMENDS THAT WE SHOULD
ESTABLISH A QUICK BUILT
PROGRAM.
QUICK BUILD IS THE APPROACH
THAT'S SUPPOSED TO HELP CITIES
BREAK OUT OF THIS ENDLESS
PLANNING CYCLE WHERE WE CAN USE
TEMPORARY AND INEXPENSIVE
MATERIALS TO RAPIDLY TRY OUT
NEW CONFIGURATIONS IN THE REAL
WORLD, EVALUATE THEM AND TWEAK
THEM AS NEEDED.
THAT'S A BRIDGE TO YOUR CREDIT.
YOU TRY TO GET THE BALL ROLLING
WITH THE BUDGET AMENDMENT
SEVERAL YEARS GO BUT OUR
APPROACH TO QUICK BUILD SEEMS
TO ACTUALLY HAVE ENDED UP STUCK
IN THE SAME MENTALITY THAT WE
HAVE TO EXHAUSTIVELY PLAN A 30
YEARS BEFORE ACTUALLY DOING A
TINY BIT OF WORK AND THIS IS
JUST CLASSIC DELINEATOR AND WE
ALSO SEEM TO HAVE NO MECHANISM
TO EVALUATE HOW WE CAN MAINTAIN
THE STUFF ON AN ONGOING BASIS.
IF WE DID MAYBE WE WOULDN'T
NEED SUCH EXHAUSTIVE PLANS AND
THAT LAST MONTH THAT AT A
COUNCIL MEETING WE SAW THAT
WE'VE GOTTEN SO BOGGED DOWN
WITH THIS PLAN WE MISSED AN
ENTIRE YEAR.
WE'RE NOT DOING ANY ROAD SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR AT ALL FOLKS, THIS IS NOT
HOW THIS IS SUPPOSED TO WORK.
>> SO AGAIN WHEN DO WE STOP
PLANNING AND START DOING AND
WHEN ARE WE GOING TO ACTUALLY
GET SERIOUS ABOUT VISION ZERO
PLANS.
>> WE KNOW WHAT NEEDS TO BE
DONE.
>> LET'S DO IT.
THANK YOU.
ON THEIR COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO FIRST OF ALL
EXPRESS MY DISPLEASURE AT
HAVING BEEN TREATED TO A
DETAILED DESCRIPTION FULL
OF SOME UNFACTUAL INFORMATION
BUT ALSO FULL OF REALLY
NAUSEATING DETAILS WHEN YOU
IMAGINE WHAT WAS REALLY
HAPPENING IN THOSE CHAMBERS AND
I REALLY WISH THAT THE PUBLIC
COMMENT WOULD STOP.
>> IT'S NOT DOING ANY GOOD FOR
ANYONE.
HOWEVER, IN A MORE HOPEFUL VEIN
,I'D LIKE TO SAY THAT WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE A VISIT
FROM OUR
SISTER CITY MEMBERS OF OUR
SISTER CITY TUEBINGEN GEP.
>> DO YOU WANT TO TALK?
OH WAIT NO NO.
OK, OK.
DO YOU BRING IN GERMANY AND
THEY THE LORD MAYOR WHICH IS
WHAT IS CALLED THEY'RE SORRY
MAYOR WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO
THAT TITLE HE WILL BE SPEAKING
TO WHAT WE CAN LEARN FROM ANN
ARBOR SISTER CITY ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE AND INDEED WE HAVE A LOT
AND IT'S REALLY FUN AND LORD
MAYOR PALMER WILL BE HERE AT
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18TH SIX
TO SEVEN THIRTY PM PLEASE NOTE
THAT ON YOUR CALENDAR AND COME
IT WILL BE AN INTERACTIVE
SESSION.
>> SO THAT'S EVEN MORE FUN AND
THEN PLEASE SAVE THE DATE THAT
SAME WEEK FRIDAY NIGHT,
SEPTEMBER 20TH FOR THE TWO ZERO
GREEN FAIR IN DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR THERE ARE SO MANY PEOPLE
WHO ARE WORKING TO MAKE OUR
TRANSITION TO SUSTAINABILITY
HAPPEN AND THE GREEN FAIR
FEATURES PEOPLE YOU CAN LEARN
FROM AND THINGS YOU CAN EAT.
>> SO COME SUMMER SONG.
OH I'M SORRY COUNCIL MEMBER I'M
SORRY FOR THE CONFUSION.
HERE'S A SHOCKING FACT MOST
CHILDREN IN THE US WHO DIE FROM
AN ACCIDENTAL SHOOTING ARE
PLAYING AROUND WITH GUNS AT
HOME OR MISTAKING THEM FOR
TOYS.
THESE ARE INCIDENTS THAT ARE
100 PERCENT PREVENTABLE AND A
KEY PREVENTION TOOL IS LIKE IN
YOUR GUN.
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO A
CONSTITUENT APPROACHED ME TO
ASK IF CITY IF THE CITY COULD
OFFER GUN LOCKS AND VENDING
MACHINES MUCH LIKE WE DO FOR
NARCAN AND OTHER PUBLIC HEALTH
SUPPLIES THAT BEGIN A
CONVERSATION WITH CHIEF
ANDERSON AND HIS TEAM ABOUT HOW
WE COULD OFFER FREE GUN LOCKS
ON A NO QUESTIONS ASKED BASIS.
AND I'M HAPPY TO REPORT THAT WE
NOW HAVE AN EXPANDED FREE GUN
LOCK PROGRAM.
THEY ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THREE
ANABAPTIST LIBRARY BRANCHES
DOWNTOWN WESTGATE AND
MARLETTE'S CREEK.
THEY'RE AVAILABLE TO ANYONE NO
QUESTIONS ASKED.
THEY DON'T REQUIRE ANY
INTERACTION WITH STAFF AND
THEY'RE ALSO IN A PUBLIC SPACE
WHERE OTHER INFORMATION AND
HARM REDUCTION ITEMS ARE
AVAILABLE.
THESE ARE ALSO AVAILABLE
SUPPORTIVE CONNECTIONS OFFICE
IN LARCOMBE THIS BUILDING AND
24/7 AT THE APD FRONT DESK
LOCATED ON THE SECOND FLOOR
OF THE JUSTICE CENTER AND ALSO
NO QUESTIONS ASKED.
>> SO I WANT TO THANK SONYA
LEWIS WHO BROUGHT THIS IDEA TO
ME.
CHIEF ANDERSON AND THE APD AND
THE PARTNERSHIP OF THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY AND
WORKING TOGETHER TO MAKE THIS A
REALITY.
PLEASE BE A RESPONSIBLE GUN
OWNER AND LOCK UP YOUR FIREARM
COUNCIL NO BRAKES.
>> YEAH, THANKS.
SO FOR THE LAST COUPLE
OF MEETINGS WE'VE HAD A FORMER
COUNCIL MEMBER WHO'S COME AND
AND WARNED THAT MAYBE A TAX
INCREASE MIGHT BE SOMETHING
THAT IS THAT'S HEADING OUR WAY
.
AND I'VE BEEN SHAKING MY HEAD
AND THINKING, YOU KNOW, NO,
THIS IS THIS ISN'T LIKELY BUT
I'M BEGINNING TO BE CONCERNED
THAT MAYBE THAT ALSO IS A
POSSIBILITY.
UNFORTUNATELY THERE IS A
PROPOSAL THAT VOTERS ARE GOING
TO BE LOOKING AT IN NOVEMBER
PROPOSAL D THAT IS GOING TO BE
SUGGESTING A 900 PERCENT MATCH
ON SMALL DONATIONS UP TO FORTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR A COUNCIL
MEMBER, NINETY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR MAYORAL CANDIDATES
AND THE REALITY IS THAT WE
DON'T HAVE THE FUNDS TO BE ABLE
TO ACTUALLY PAY FOR MONEY FOR
POLITICIANS WITHOUT CUTTING
SERVICES OR CREATING A TAX
INCREASE.
SO MAYOR TAYLOR, I DO THINK
THAT WE PROBABLY NEED TO START
DISCUSSING YOU KNOW, WHAT ARE
WE GOING TO HAVE TO DO TO BE
ABLE TO ADDRESS THIS IF THIS
PASSES FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
SONG SPEAKING OF BALLOT
INITIATIVES, IF WE ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT TAX CAPTURE WE
COULD ALWAYS DO A HEADLY
OVERRIDE AND FERNDALE IS
ACTUALLY AT FERNDALE ACTUALLY
HAS THIS ON THEIR BALLOT THIS
NOVEMBER BUT INSTEAD WE HAVE
TWO BALLOT INITIATIVES THAT
HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH QUALITY
OF LIFE OR WELL-BEING FOR OUR
RESIDENTS.
>> INSTEAD IT'S IT'S IT'S AN
EXERCISE IN UNDERSTANDING WHAT
UNIVERSAL VALUES ARE.
>> SO IF WE ARE TO HAVE A
SERIOUS DISCUSSION ON TAX TAXES
HERE IN ANN ARBOR, I HOPE WE
HAVE A BETTER UNDERSTANDING
OF HOW BADLY THE HADLEY
AMENDMENT AND PROBY THE IMPACT
ON UNDERFUNDING MUNICIPAL
GOVERNMENT AND MAYBE TAKING A
LOOK AT MMO AND THEIR POSITION
STATEMENT.
>> THERE'S ALSO ACTUALLY A MEMO
THAT JOHN FORNIA HAD WRITTEN TO
COUNCIL BACK IN THE LAST I
THINK IN TWENTY ONE WHICH IS
REALLY USEFUL TO AN
UNDERSTANDING THIS.
SO WE'VE DONE OUR HOMEWORK.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON THOSE
WHO TUNED IN LAST MONTH HEARD
ME GIVE THIS ANNOUNCEMENT.
BUT SINCE THE VIRTUAL OFFICE
HOURS ARE COMING UP THIS WEEK,
I'LL MENTION AGAIN THAT THE
NIXON QUARTER IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT THERE IS AN UPDATE ON
THE WEB PAGE AT EIGHT TO THAT
ORG SLASH NIXON AND THERE'S A
VIDEO THERE AND INFORMATION
ABOUT THE PROPOSED ROAD DESIGN.
BUT IF YOU'D LIKE TO HEAR MORE
AND IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS FOR
STAFF ON THIS, THERE ARE
VIRTUAL OFFICE HOURS THIS
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 21ST FROM 11
30 A.M. TO ONE P.M. AND AGAIN
THIS THURSDAY, AUGUST TWENTY
SECOND FROM SEVEN TO EIGHT
THIRTY P.M. STAFF ASKED IF YOU
COULD PLEASE WATCH THE VIDEO
POSTED BEFORE YOU COME TO THOSE
SESSIONS JUST SO YOU HAVE AN
OVERVIEW OF THE DESIGN AND THEN
THERE IS ANOTHER VIRTUAL
SESSION THAT WILL KIND OF WALK
THROUGH THAT VIDEO WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 18TH SEVEN EIGHT
THIRTY.
SO YOU CAN RUN OVER AFTER
LISTENING TO THE MAYOR TO THE
LORD MAYOR SPEAK AT THE
LIBRARY.
>> YEAH.
AND BE ZOOME LINKS FOR THESE
PROJECTS WILL BE AVAILABLE THE
DAY OF THE EVENT ONCE AGAIN
THAT'S A TWO GOV DOGGED NIXON.
>> THANK YOU.
>> FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL
WE HAVE BEFORE US
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
AGENDA MOVES BY COUNCILOR DENHA
MY COUNCILOR HARRISON
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
I WAS JUST HOPING THAT STAFF
MIGHT BE ABLE TO JUST PROVIDE
ANSWER A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
SORRY I NEED I KNOW I NEED TO
PULL IT.
>> I DO THIS THE ONE RELATED TO
THE RFP FOR 415
C C TWO.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO PROCEED TO
MR DELACOURT AVAILABLE
.
SHALL WE PULL IT?
IT'S POLT FOR THE DISCUSSION
THE CONSENT AGENDA.
FOR MY PART I JUST WANT TO
UPLIFT K FIFTEEN WHICH IS A
RESOLUTION TO APPROPRIATE
INFLATION REDUCTION AT GRANT
FUNDS FROM THE USDA FOREST
SERVICE AS A SUB AWARD THROUGH
VARIOUS VARIOUS PROJECTS.
THIS IS YET ANOTHER EXAMPLE
OF THE POWER OF THE BIDEN
HARRIS INFLATION REDUCTION ACT
ACCRUING TO THE BENEFIT
OF PEOPLE THAT NO WE HAVE
OF COURSE OURSELVES AS A
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION
PURCHASED MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
OF SOLAR PANELS AND ACCRUED
OTHER ENERGY RELATED BENEFITS
AS A RESULT OF THE INFLATION
REDUCTION ACT HERE WE AS A
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION ARE
GOING TO BE RECEIVING A MILLION
DOLLARS TO SUPPORT OUR URBAN
FORESTRY EFFORTS WHICH ARE
CRUCIAL TO QUALITY OF LIFE,
HEALTH AND AND AND YOU KNOW,
POLLUTION FIGHTING HERE WITHIN
THE CITY.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS
GRATITUDE TO STAFF FOR GETTING
THE GETTING THE GRANT AND TO
THE ADMINISTRATION OF COURSE
FOR ITS AVAILABILITY FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA WELL IN FAVOR OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE TWO POLICY I
PROPOSED THE CONSENT AGENDA
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF CO2 IS
APPROVED TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO SEE A SEVEN SEEI
NINE C11 C FIFTEEN
TWO
RESOLUTION TO DIRECT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO CONTRACT FOR
REAL STATE BROKERAGE OR
SELLER'S AGENT SERVICES FOR THE
SALE OF 415 WEST WASHINGTON
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF TWO
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS.
>> YEAH I WAS HOPING THAT MR
DELACOURT MIGHT BE ABLE TO
RESPOND TO JUST A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS
I THINK HE'S ON SO
I WILL START TO POSE THE
QUESTIONS BASICALLY THIS IS
ANSWERED OR AN AGENDA RESPONSE
QUESTIONS BUT I KNOW THAT NOT
EVERYBODY GETS A CHANCE TO TO
READ THOSE FROM THE PUBLIC
BEFORE OUR MEETINGS I WAS JUST
HOPING THAT HE COULD BE ABLE
COULD SPEAK ON SORT OF THE
BENEFIT OF USING A SELLER'S
AGENT AND THEN ALSO DISCUSS
SORT OF THE SPEAK TO THE FACT
THAT THIS IS A PRE ENTITLED
PROJECT AND ALL OF THE ELEMENTS
THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN VETTED
AND APPROVED BY COUNCIL AND
WILL BE SHARED WITH THE
SELLER'S AGENT AS WE MOVE
FORWARD
.
MR DELACOURT, CAN YOU GUYS HEAR
ME NOW WE CAN O
KIND OF GOOD I
DON'T KNOW WHY I CAN'T SEE WHY
MY CAMERA IS NOT WORKING SO
YEAH I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT BUT
I'M CERTAINLY HERE AND ABLE TO
ANSWER ANY OF THOSE QUESTIONS
IN FIRST I BELIEVE THE QUESTION
WAS THE BENEFIT OF A SELLERS
AGENT AND BROKER OR JUST A
SELLER'S AGENT IN COMPARISON TO
THE BROKER.
>> JUST FOR CLARIFICATION I WAS
MORE THINKING OF THAT THE
SELLER'S AGENT OR BROKER
BASICALLY THAT AS OPPOSED TO AN
RFP.
>> YOU KNOW, THAT WAS ONE
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT WAS POSED
THE AGENDA RESPONSE.
>> I WAS HOPING YOU COULD SPEAK
TO THAT.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
FOR US I MEAN IT'S IT'S BOTH
PROCESSES SOLICIT COMPETITIVE
OFFERS FOR THE PROPERTY AND RFP
PROCESS IS A POINT IN TIME TYPE
PROCESS WHERE YOU GET A FIXED
SET OF OFFERS AND THEN COMPARE
THOSE SELECTED WINNING OR
PREFERRED BIDDER AND THEN BEGIN
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THAT
PREFERRED BIDDER SPECIFICALLY
THAT NARROWS THOSE OPTIONS TO
THAT ONE THAT ONE DEVELOPMENT
GROUP SPECIFICALLY.
AND IF IT'S NOT A PURCHASE
AGREEMENT IS NOT SUCCESSFUL
OFTENTIMES YOU HAVE TO MOVE
BACKWARDS IN THE PROCESS OR
WORST CASE SCENARIO START OVER
USE OF A SELLER'S AGENT OR A
BROKER ALLOWS THOSE
NEGOTIATIONS TO GO ON
CONTINUOUSLY UNTIL AND OFTEN
ALLOW NEGOTIATIONS WITH MORE
THAN ONE DEVELOPMENT GROUP AT A
TIME SOLICITING OR NEGOTIATING
FOR THE BEST OFFER POSSIBLE FOR
THE SITE IN THIS INSTANCE WITH
A WITH AN ENTITLED SITE WE
THINK THAT IS THE BEST PROCESS
TO MOVE FORWARD.
CERTAINLY THERE ARE DIFFERENT
PROCESSES THAT APPLY TO
DIFFERENT PROJECTS BUT
CERTAINLY IN THIS INSTANCE THIS
IS THE ONE STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING I PLAY THE OTHER
QUESTION WAS THE SITE BEING
ENTITLED AS WE'VE DISCUSSED IN
PREVIOUS INSTANCES, THIS SITE
THE CITY ALONG WITH THE MEDIA
AND OTHER ENTITIES ACTED AS THE
DEVELOPER FOR THE ENTITLEMENT
PROCESS WHICH IS THE APPROVAL,
THE ZONING AND IN THIS INSTANCE
WE'VE ALSO DONE A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF WORK WITH THE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PROCESS UP
FRONT THAT I THINK IS WELL
DOCUMENTED.
WE HAVE ALSO DONE A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF WORK WHEN IT'S
RELATED TO THE BROWNFIELD
REMEDIATION.
IN FACT DEVELOPING A
REMEDIATION PLAN THAT IS
AVAILABLE FOR THE DEVELOPER HAS
BEEN REVIEWED BY THE CITY'S
CONSULTANTS.
SO IN THIS INSTANCE THE CITY
WITHOUT THE BENEFIT OR
DETRIMENT DEPENDING ON YOUR
POINT OF VIEW OF A DEVELOPMENT
TEAM WENT THROUGH THE PROCESS
OF ENTITLING THE SITE BASED ON
THAT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND
EVALUATING THE SERIES OF TRADE
OFFS THAT ARE WELL DOCUMENTED
WITH THE SITE AND APPROVED THE
PD FOR THE SITE THAT IS PART
OF THE PACKAGE THAT WILL BE
ADVERTISED FOR THE SALE OF THE
PROPERTY.
WE BELIEVE THAT IS A IS ANOTHER
DISTINCTION FOR THE SITE.
THE SIMILAR TO A LOT OF SITES
THAT THE CITY MAY DECIDE TO
DISPOSE OF AND ONE THAT MAKES
IT UNIQUE IN THAT MARKETING
PROCESS.
>> SO I THINK I'LL STOP THERE
AND LISTEN IN CASE THERE'S ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
>> WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT THE SPECIFIC
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING SPEAKERS DO NOT NEED TO
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE IN
ORDER TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
HEARING BUT THEIR SPEECH MUST
RELATE TO THE SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
PUBLIC HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS
BOTH IN THE HOUSE AND ONLINE
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED, PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF TWO SEVEN POINT
SIXTY FIVE ACRES ARE FOR A
MULTIFAMILY DISTRICT TO OUR
FOUR D MULTIFAMILY DISTRICT
WITH THE CONDITION THAT THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHT IS SEVENTY FIVE
FEET OWL CREEK PHASE TWO
REZONING THREE THREE EIGHT ZERO
NIXON ROAD.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK YOU
JUST COME ON UP.
>> OH GOOD YOU'RE WELCOME.
MY NAME IS HARTNETT.
>> I LIVE IN THE OAK CREEK
APARTMENTS WHERE THE PROPOSED
REZONING IS HAPPENING.
I WAS JUST CURIOUS LOOKING AT
THE DOCUMENTS THEY'VE PROPOSED
ABOUT A SEVEN METER VARIANCE ON
THE REAR SETBACK LIMITS.
ARE THERE ANY IMPACTS THAT
WOULD HAPPEN TO THE OAKLANDS
NATURE AREA THERE?
I KNOW THERE'S A WETLAND THERE
AND I'M NOT SURE IF THEY'RE
GOING TO BE BUILDING ON THAT
VARIANCE OR IF THEY JUST NEED
EXTRA SPACE AROUND WHERE THE
BUILDING WOULD BE TAKING.
THANK YOU.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE NOT
TYPICALLY QUESTION ANSWER
SESSIONS BUT BUT WE OH NO YOU
ARE YOU ARE WELL WITHIN YOUR
RIGHT TO HAVE POSED THE
QUESTION.
I'M JUST EXPLAINING WHY THERE'S
NO IMMEDIATE ANSWER BUT I HOPE
SOMEONE WILL HAVE NOTED IT.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
THANKS FOR YOUR TIME KEN
GARBER, SECOND WORD.
VERY NICE TO BE HERE WITH YOU
HERE TONIGHT.
MAYBE MR. MOORE WHO JUST WALKED
IN CAN ANSWER THE QUESTION
ABOUT THE IMPACT OF THE SETBACK
FOR HANDS ON THE WETLAND AND
THIS IS A REZONING FROM OUR FOR
FOR D NOT JUST FOR THE PROPOSED
NEW CONSTRUCTION BUT FOR THE
ENTIRE TWENTY EIGHT ACRE SITE
WHICH INCLUDES THREE EXISTING
THREE STOREY APARTMENT
BUILDINGS WITH A CLUBHOUSE ONE
COULD MAKE A REASONABLE CASE
AGAINST THIS REZONING THE
WETLAND THERE IS ONE OF THE
LARGEST AND MOST IMPORTANT IN
THE CITY AND IT CONNECTS
UNDERGROUND TO OTHER WETLANDS
FURTHER SOUTH.
SO HIGHER DENSITY RIGHT AT THE
EDGE OF THIS WETLAND VARIANCE
OR NO VARIANCE COULD HARM WATER
QUALITY AND SPECIES DIVERSITY
AND OUR FOUR D TRIPLES THE
BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT TWO
HUNDRED TWENTY FEET.
>> ON THE OTHER HAND THERE IS A
WETLAND MOUND MONITORING PLAN
AND IT'S IN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND THE DEVELOPER HAS
VOLUNTARILY AGREED TO A ZONING
CONDITION THAT LIMITS BUILDING
HEIGHT TO SEVENTY FIVE FEET AND
THE REZONING ENABLES A NEW FIVE
STOREY ONE HUNDRED THIRTY
THIRTY ONE UNIT APARTMENT
BUILDING WHICH WILL USE PARKING
THAT ALREADY EXISTS BUT ISN'T
CURRENTLY USED.
>> WE NEED THE HOUSING AND AS
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH POINTED OUT
LAST MONTH, THIS IS AN INFILL
PROJECT.
FINALLY THIS WILL BE AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING AT LEAST
MOSTLY I'LL SAY MORE ABOUT THAT
AT THE SITE PLANNING PUBLIC
HEARING SO PERSONALLY TAKING
EVERYTHING INTO ACCOUNT.
I SUPPORT THIS REZONING TO
HARTFORD SO I'M SURE TO APPROVE
IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
MAYOR, I SEE NO ONE WITH THEIR
HAND RAISED
SEEING NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO TO
RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE THREE THREE
EIGHT ZERO NIXON ROAD ELECTRIC
PHASE TWO SITE PLAN AND
AGREEMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> THANKS, MAYOR TAYLOR.
I GUESS IT'S JUST ME THIS TIME.
KENT GARBER AGAIN, AS I
MENTIONED JUST MENTIONED THIS
IS A GOOD PROJECT ELECTRIC
BUILDING WITH A GOOD HEATING
SYSTEM.
WE'VE APPROVED THEM ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDINGS THAT EMPLOY
THAT USE VERTEX OR VERTICAL
TERMINAL AIRCONDITIONERS WHICH
ARE BASICALLY CLASSIC HEAT
PUMPS FOR INDIVIDUAL UNITS,
VERY INEFFICIENT OWL CREEK TO
ITS CREDIT WILL BE USING A
CENTRALIZED ROOFTOP CONDENSER
UNIT AND WILL PUMP HOT
REFRIGERANT TO HEAT EXCHANGERS
IN EACH UNIT WHICH IS A MUCH
MORE EFFICIENT SETUP.
THE DEVELOPER ADAM BLETHEN
VOLUNTARILY AGREED TO MAKE
ELECTRIFICATION A CONDITION FOR
SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
THAT'S IN PARAGRAPH EIGHTEEN
OF THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
THIS IS A GOOD PRECEDENT,
SOMETHING WE SHOULD ALWAYS ASK
FOR.
BUT THERE IS A PROBLEM HERE
THAT I SEE PLANNING PERMISSION
REQUIRED ELECTRIFICATION AND
SPECIFIED NO GAS HOOKUP BUT A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ON YOUR
TABLE TONIGHT ADDS QUOTE WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF A CONNECTION
TO NATURAL GAS TO BE USED ONLY
FOR THE USE OF AN EMERGENCY
BACKUP ELECTRIC GENERATOR AND
QUOTE THIS BEGS EXPLANATION AND
PLANNING COMMISSION MR. BOSNIAC
AGREED TO LANGUAGE THAT WOULD
PREVENT ANY FUTURE GAS
CONNECTION.
HE SAID AND I QUOTE THERE WOULD
BE NO REASON TO HAVE A
CONNECTION TO GAS AND QUOTE THE
H0 PLAN IS VERY EXPLICIT ABOUT
THIS AND ALWAYS I ALWAYS ASK
DEVELOPERS NOT TO CONNECT TO
GAS.
MOST DO UNFORTUNATELY HERE WE
HAVE A DEVELOPER HAPPY TO
COMPLY.
MR. BOSNIAC POINTED OUT THAT
THE ADJACENT CLUBHOUSE WILL
HAVE A GAS GENERATOR AND THAT
ITS KITCHEN BATHROOMS AND
SHOWERS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR
RESIDENTS DURING OUTAGES.
SO MY QUESTION TONIGHT IS WHY
ADD THE LANGUAGE ABOUT A GAS
CONNECTION TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT GIVEN THAT MR.
WOZNIAK'S GIVEN THAT MR. BUSH
AGREED TO NOT ASK FOR THIS AND
WAS ALSO PLANNING COMMISSION'S
EXPLICIT DESIRE SO WE SHOULD
KNOW THE REASON AND MAYBE MR.
MOORE CAN SUPPLY ALSO OTHERWISE
PLEASE REMOVE THAT LANGUAGE AND
BEFORE APPROVING THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THIS
MIGHT SEEM LIKE A SMALL
CONCERN
BUT WE SHOULD NOT DEVIATE FROM
EIGHT TO ZERO AND PLANNING
COMMISSIONS DESIRES WITHOUT A
COMPELLING REASON.
EVERY BIT OF CO2 WE KEEP OUT
OF THE ATMOSPHERE MATTERS GIVEN
THAT IT STAYS UP THERE FOR
CENTURIES HEATING THE PLANET.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
MAYOR AS YOU KNOW AND WITH
THEIR HAND RAISED
SEE IN THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF AUGUST EIGHT.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AM I HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MAYORS MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
WATSON SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES WHILE FAVOR
POSED THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED
BY ONE AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF TWENTY SEVEN POINT
SIXTY FIVE ACRES FROM OR FOR A
MULTIFAMILY DISTRICT TO OUR FOR
MULTIFAMILY DISTRICT WITH THE
CONDITION THAT THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT IS 75 FEET OWL CREEK
PHASE TWO REZONING THREE THREE
EIGHT ZERO NEXEN ROAD MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE BE ONE
COUNCILMAN BRITISH.
>> I AM VERY HAPPY TO DISCUSS
THIS PROJECT WHICH AS A PUBLIC
COMMENT ARE ALREADY MENTIONED
IS A HOUSING INFILL PROJECT
THAT MAKES USE OF THE EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE TO PROVIDE
ADDITIONAL HOUSING UNITS IN AN
EFFICIENT WAY.
>> WE WILL SPEAK MORE ABOUT THE
SITE PLAN IN A MOMENT.
BUT THIS REZONING WILL ALLOW US
TO CONSIDER A SITE PLAN THAT
WILL ADD IN 131 UNIT APARTMENT
BUILDING NEXT TO AN EXISTING
PARKING.
>> THIS REZONING WILL ALLOW THE
CONSTRUCTION WILL ALLOW US TO
CONSIDER THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THE AL PHASE SITE PLAN.
>> NOW THIS HAS ALREADY BEEN
MENTIONED BUT I WILL SAY IT
AGAIN.
I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT THE
CURRENT MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDINGS ON SITE IS THIRTY
EIGHT POINT SEVEN FEET AND THE
PROPOSED HEIGHT OF THE NEW
BUILDING IS ABOUT SIXTY FEET
WHICH IS TO SAY ROUGHLY FIVE
STORIES TALL OR FIVE STORIES
TALL THAT ROUGHLY THE CONDITION
CAPS THE HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING
AT 75 FEET IN DEFERENCE TO
CONCERNS BY THE NEIGHBORS
BECAUSE THEY ARE FOR ZONING
ALLOWS HEIGHT UP TO 120 FEET.
THE BUILDING PROPOSED ON THE
SITE PLAN THAT WE WILL CONSIDER
LATER IN THIS MEETING WILL NOT
BE SEVENTY FIVE FEET TALL.
WE'VE HAD A LOT
OF CORRESPONDENCE CONCERNED
ABOUT A SEVENTY FIVE FOOT TALL
BUILDING BECAUSE THEY'RE
MISUNDERSTANDING.
I WELL THEY REASONABLY
INTERPRETED THE AGREEMENT TO
FIVE FEET TO TELL US WHAT THE
BUILDING SITE IS BUT THAT'S NOT
IT.
SO THIS PROJECT IS CONSISTENT
WITH THE OVERALL GOALS OF THE
CURRENT PLAN AND IT'S
COMPATIBLE WITH THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS ALSO ALSO
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING.
THERE IS A VARIANCE THAT ALLOWS
THE NEW BUILDING TO BE
CONSTRUCTED OVER AN EXISTING
TWELVE SPACE PARKING LOT
WITHOUT MOVING OR REDUCING THE
SIZE OF THAT PARKING LOT.
THE VARIANCE DOES NOT GRANT
PERMISSION TO DO ANYTHING TO
THE OAKWOOD NATURAL AREA AND
WE'LL TALK A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT THAT WHEN WE COME TO THE
SITE PLAN THE DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN OUR FOUR D AND R FOR A
IS THAT WE'RE MOVING FROM A MAX
OF 20 DWELLING UNITS PER ACRE
TO 25 DWELLING UNITS PER ACRE
AGAIN AND INFILL PROJECT IS A
TYPICALLY GRADUAL INCREASE
OF DENSITY THAT IS EFFICIENT
BECAUSE IT USES EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> SO THAT'S NICE AND I THINK
THAT'S ALL I WILL TELL YOU NOW
OR THE DISCUSSION OF B1 ON
OFFER POST IT IS APPROVED D1
ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
THREE THREE EIGHT ZERO NIXON
ROAD ELECTRIC PHASE TWO SITE
PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D1.
>> YES THANK YOU.
I'M GOOD.
I'M SORRY I DIDN'T READ ALL
GOOD.
>> HOW PRESUMPTUOUS.
SO AS WE HAVE SAID THERE ARE
CURRENTLY THREE THREE STORY
APARTMENT BILLS GOING ON THIS
PROPERTY AND ADDING THIS
BUILDING WILL BRING THE SITE
TOTAL TO 395 UNITS THESE WILL
BE IN PROXIMITY TO SERVICES AND
JOBS.
SO IT'S A TERRIFIC INCREASE IN
HOUSING THERE.
>> THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
DOES PROVIDE FULL
ELECTRIFICATION FOR ALL PROJECT
HEATING, COOLING AND APPLIANCES
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE
NATURAL GAS FOR EMERGENCY
BACKUP.
I WOULD LIKE TO USE A LITTLE
BIT OF MY TIME BECAUSE I CAN
ALWAYS COME BACK TO ASK EITHER
MR. LEONARD OR MISS THATCHER TO
EXPLAIN WHY THAT PROVISION WAS
ADDED AND I THINK WE HAVE YEAH
.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
THIS IS THE PLANNING MANAGER SO
THAT IS OFTEN AN EXCEPTION THAT
WE PROVIDE AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS WHEN WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ELECTRIFICATION, I
HONESTLY DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S
BEEN ANY SPECIFIC CONVERSATIONS
WITH THE PETITIONER THAT IS
TYPICAL LANGUAGE THAT WE'VE
INCLUDED ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS TO PROVIDE THAT
CONTINUOUS SERVICE WHEN A
BUILDING IS OTHERWISE ALL
ELECTRIC.
IF THE PETITIONER IS INTERESTED
IN IT WE COULD CERTAINLY MAKE
THE CHANGE BUT MAINTAINING IT
OBVIOUSLY WOULD PROVIDE JUST
DESCRIBED CONTINUOUS SERVICE TO
THAT BUILDING IN THE IN THE
EVENT OF ANY POWER OUTAGE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
APPRECIATE THAT.
I WANT TO SPEAK TO TWO MORE
THINGS IF I HAVE TIME AND IF I
DON'T I'LL COME BACK AND ONE IS
THAT THE ELECTRIFICATION IS IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> IT IS NOT ATTACHED TO THE
ZONING.
THAT MEANS THAT IF THAT THAT IF
THAT IT IS FOR THIS SITE PLAN
ONLY.
>> SO IF THIS PLAN DOES NOT GO
THROUGH THE ELECTRIFICATION
WILL NOT BE A REQUIREMENT
ATTACHED TO THIS PARCEL IN ANY
WAY AND THAT IS UNFORTUNATE BUT
YOU DON'T WANT TO ATTACH THINGS
TO ZONING.
>> THEY DON'T HAVE TO DO WITH
ZONING AND ELECTRIFICATION IS
NOT A FEATURE OF ZONING LAND
USE AN AREA HEIGHT AND
PLACEMENT ARE AND SO WE HAVE
PUT THINGS WHERE THEY BELONG
AND THAT THAT ISN'T A ROCK
SOLID GUARANTEE.
THAT'S THE ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH
WE LIVE.
SO IF I'M RUNNING OUT I'LL JUST
COME BACK ABOUT THREE SECONDS.
>> OH COOL.
ALL RIGHT.
SO YES THERE THIS SITE ABUTS
OAKWOOD ACKWARDS NATURE AREA
AND THERE IS A POPULATION
OF BUTLERS GARTER SNAKES WHICH
ARE A STATE SPECIES OF SPECIAL
CONCERN.
>> IF YOU WANT TO GO VISIT
THEM, YOU NOW KNOW WHERE YOU
CAN FIND THEM.
THE PETITIONER HAS OR THE
DEVELOPER HAS GUARANTEED THAT
THIS AREA WILL BE PROTECTED
WITH SILT FENCING AND DISTURBED
AS LITTLE AS POSSIBLE DURING
CONSTRUCTION.
>> THERE IS NO PLANS TO DO ANY
CONSTRUCTION ON THE AREA OF THE
SITE THAT DIRECTLY ABUTS THE
NATURE AREA JUST TO ANSWER THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE RAISED BY AN
AUDIENCE MEMBER, COUNCILOR
WATSON AS USUAL COUNCILOR
COUNCIL MEMBER DISCOVERS ALMOST
EVERY QUESTION YOU CAN HAVE.
SO I'M JUST HAPPY TO SAY I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS PROJECT
BECAUSE IT'S INFILL DEVELOPMENT
THAT PROVIDES MUCH NEEDED
RENTAL UNITS IN WARD TWO ON A
SITE THAT WAS ALREADY PREPARED
FOR HOUSING THAT IN ADDITION TO
THE THE ELECTRIC UNITS THERE'S
EVEN PARKING SPACES TEN
INSTALLED IN EIGHTY SIX CAPABLE
AND ALL AROUND THIS PROJECT
HELPS MEET OUR CITY'S
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS.
>> IN ADDITION, THERE'S ALSO
THE THERE'S EIGHTY ONE THOUSAND
EIGHT HUNDRED SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS PARK'S CONTRIBUTION.
>> SO WE APPRECIATE THAT AND
ONE WHEN I WANTED TO MENTION IS
SOME NEIGHBORS HAVE BEEN A
LITTLE BIT CONCERNED THAT THE
NEAREST BUS STOP IS HALF A MILE
AWAY BUT WE DID CATCH MY
REACTION.
I RAN THAT QUESTION DOWN WITH
STAFF AND BECAUSE THERE ARE ANY
CHANGES TO SITE CIRCULATION
PROPOSED AS PART OF THIS
PROJECT AND A A NEW BUS STOP
WOULD BE KIND OF A LONG TERM
PLAN AND A LONG TERM QUESTION
TO BE CONSIDERED WOULD LATER
REGARDING FINANCING AND A
NUMBER OF ISSUES, SOME OF WHICH
ARE INHERENT IN OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WE DON'T THINK IT'S EXACTLY
FAIR TO ASK FOR A FOR A NEW BUS
STOP THERE AND IT'S NOT REALLY
WITHIN OUR POWER.
SO WE JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE WE
DISCUSS THAT ISSUE.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT'S THAT'S
ALL BUT THANKS COUNCIL MEMBER
FREAK'S THANK YOU.
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE THIS IS A
GREAT PROJECT DEFINITELY IN
SUPPORT OF IT.
>> I JUST WANTED TO FOLLOW UP
JUST A TEENY BIT MORE ON A
QUESTION THAT WAS RAISED BY MR
GARBA AROUND THE THE EXCEPTION
FOR NATURAL GAS IN THE CASE
OF EMERGENCY BACK UP.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THAT WAS
SOMETHING THAT THE DEVELOPER
DID NOT REQUEST AND PLANNING
COMMISSION DIDN'T WANT AND WE
JUST KIND OF PUT IT IN BECAUSE
IT'S OUR BOILERPLATE LANGUAGE
OF SORTS IN.
>> SO I'M JUST CURIOUS IF
THERE'S A WAY TO END ASK AT
THIS MOMENT IN TIME IF THAT
WOULD BE IF THERE IF THAT IS
INDEED LANGUAGE THAT IS NOT IF
YOU KNOW OF IT IT WOULD BE
PROBLEMATIC TO REMOVE THAT
LANGUAGE FOR SOME REASON AND IF
THAT'S APPROPRIATE, MAYOR
TAYLOR TO TO POSE THAT QUESTION
WITH THE COUNCIL'S PLEASURE AND
MR MOORE'S ACQUIESCENCE
IF THAT
WOULD REMOVE THE ONLY OPTION
THE STATE BUILDING CODE THAT WE
WOULD BE LEFT WITH IS A DIESEL
GENERATOR STILL BURNING
CARBON TRUCKING DIESEL ACROSS
THE
THE STATE BUILDING
CODE GIVES US THOSE TWO CHOICES
NATURAL GAS OR DIESEL.
>> WE FELT THAT NATURAL GAS WAS
THE CLEANER OPTION.
OK, SO IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE WAS
AN ANTICIPATION THAT THAT
LANGUAGE WAS ACTUALLY GOING TO
PERHAPS BE IN THERE WITH THAT
COMMITMENT WAS MADE OK.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION IN FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED.
SEE ONE IN OREGON TO AMEND
SECTION ONE ONE SEVEN FIVE
THROUGH ONE ONE EIGHT FIVE
CHAPTER EIGHT ORGANIZATION
OF BOARD AND COMMISSIONS TITLE
ONE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THAT ARE
REMOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
ONE COUNCIL BRITISH.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO THIS THIS ORDINANCE CHANGE
WOULD DO TWO THINGS.
>> WELL TWO BROAD THINGS.
ONE IS TO MAKE SOME
TERMINOLOGICAL CHANGES FOR
GENDER NEUTRALITY AND TO USE
THE TERM COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN
PLACE OF ANY OTHER TERMINOLOGY
USED TO REFER TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THE THE
PROBABLY MORE CONSEQUENCE
CHANGE IS TO CHANGE THE MINIMUM
STANDARD THAT IS THE NUMBER
OF VOTES THAT ARE REQUIRED TO
SEND SOMETHING FORWARD FROM THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION TO
CITY COUNCIL WITH A AS A AS AN
APPROVAL AS AN APPROVAL BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> SO CURRENTLY THAT MINIMUM
STANDARD IS SIX AFFIRMATIVE
VOTES.
SOMETIMES WE'VE SEEN A
UNANIMOUS YES VOTE FROM
PLANNING COMMISSION THAT FELL
SHORT OF THAT 60 VOTE THRESHOLD
AND IT HAS TO BE BROUGHT
FORWARD AS A TECHNICAL FAIL
WHICH IS STRANGE.
>> AND SO WHY IS THAT HAPPEN?
THAT HAPPENS BECAUSE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS
COMPRISED OF MANY LAND-USE
PROFESSIONALS.
THEY ARE VALUED MEMBERS OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THEY
OCCASIONALLY APPROPRIATELY
RECUSE THEMSELVES FROM
DISCUSSION AND DELIBERATION AND
OTHER AND MOREOVER THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS COMPRISED MOSTLY
OF VOLUNTEERS, MANY OF WHOM
HAVE FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN OR
OTHER EVENTS IN THEIR LIVES OR
JOBS AND SOMETIMES THEY ARE
ABSENT.
SO IF YOU PUT THOSE TWO THINGS
TOGETHER WE OFTEN ARE IN A
SITUATION WHERE WE MAY FALL
SHORT OF THE SIX AFFIRMATIVE
VOTE THRESHOLD EVEN THOUGH WE
ALL UNANIMOUSLY AGREE THAT
SOMETHING IS A GOOD ORDINANCE
OR A GOOD ZONING CHANGE.
AND SO FOR THAT REASON CPC
RECOMMENDS A MODIFICATION TO
THE SECTION TO REDUCE THE
STANDARD FROM SIX TO FIVE
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES AND I SUPPORT
THIS CHANGE AND I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL TOO WHEN IT COMES BACK TO
US FOR A SECOND READING AND I
HOPE THAT YOU WILL SEND A LOT
OF SECOND NATURE INTO THE
DISCUSSION
.
FOR MY PART I'M OF COURSE GOING
TO BE VOTING IN SUPPORT
OF THESE THINGS.
JUST WANT TO ADD A LITTLE BIT
OF A BOOST TO THE CONCEPT
OF RECUSALS.
THE IDEA THAT THAT WE HAVE THE
IDEA THAT THE NOTE THAT THERE
ARE OPPORTUNITY FOR PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS TO RECUSE
THEMSELVES OPPORTUNITIES THAT
THEY VEIL THEY'LL THEMSELVES
THAT THAT IS A THAT THAT IS A
NEGATIVE MYSTIFIES ME.
WE HAVE DESIGN PROFESSIONALS
WHO ARE DOING WORK IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND WE HAVE PEOPLE
WHO ARE, YOU KNOW, DECLINING TO
VOTE ON MATTERS THAT PERTAIN TO
THEIR PROFESSIONAL OPERATIONS
THIS IS THIS IS HOW HOW LOCAL
GOVERNMENT SHOULD WORK.
THE NOTION THAT YOU WANT TO
FIND PEOPLE WHO HAVE NOTHING TO
DO WITH WITH LOCAL LOCAL AND
USE QUESTIONS YOU KNOW, I DON'T
TRUCK WITH THAT.
I THINK THIS IS A GOOD THIS IS
A GOOD THING AND SHOWS A
PLANNING COMMISSION FILLED WITH
WITH PROFESSIONALS OF THE
ENGAGEMENT EXPERIENCE AND AND
WISDOM FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST WANTED TO
ASK CLARIFYING QUESTION.
I THINK I HEAR IT BEING IN MY
EAR BUT HOW MANY MEMBERS
OF PLANNING COMMISSION ARE
THERE AND SO IS THIS A MAJORITY
STILL SOMEONE TO RESPOND TO
THAT WOULD APPRECIATE IT?
THERE ARE NOT MANY MEMBERS ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION SO THIS
WOULD STILL BE A MAJORITY.
THANK YOU.
SO WE ARE ESSENTIALLY REMOVING
THE SUPERMAJORITY OBLIGATION
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED SEE TO
IT BARDENS TO AMEND SECTIONS
FIVE TWO ZERO THREE OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE CODE THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR VEHICULAR USE
THE THICKENER USE AREA BUFFER'S
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA SECOND MY COUNTERPART
GHAZI EDMOND DISCUSSION PLEASE
ABSI TO COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
MY APOLOGIES COLLEAGUES THIS
CHANGE IS PURELY CORRECTIVE.
THERE IS NO CHANGE TO THE
REQUIREMENTS TO BE TO BUFFER
VEHICULAR USE AREAS WHICH
CONTINUE TO REQUIRE SCREENING
FROM RIGHT OF WAY LANDSCAPING
WITH INTERIOR LANDSCAPE ISLANDS
AND BUFFERS ADJACENT TO PARKS
AND RESIDENTIAL ZONED PARCELS.
SO ALL OF THAT REMAINS IN PLACE
WHENEVER THERE IS A VEHICULAR
USE THAT BUTTS UP AGAINST THOSE
THINGS.
>> THESE CHANGES WERE MADE OR
RATHER THERE WERE CHANGES MADE
ONLY TO THE PRESENTATION
OF THIS INFORMATION IN THE UDC
THESE CHANGES WERE
INADVERTENTLY OMITTED WHEN THE
UDC WAS UPDATED TO REFLECT THE
SUBSTANTIVE CHANGES THE
CONFLICTING USE BARRIER
REQUIREMENTS THAT COUNCIL
APPROVED IN FEBRUARY TWENTY ON
FEBRUARY 20TH, 2024.
WE'VE ALREADY MADE A
SUBSTANTIVE CHANGES HERE.
THESE ARE PURELY CHANGES IN
PRESENTATION THE UDC TO
SOMETHING ELSE WHICH IS
VEHICULAR USE BUFFERING AND IF
I MANGLE THAT IN ANY WAY MR.
LEONARD, PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
JUMP IN AND CLARIFY FURTHER
DISCUSSION FABER POSED IT IS
PROVED DO YOU SEE ONE
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT
OF MICHIGAN'S DRIVE SAFE BILLS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER?
THEY'RE EXAMINED BY CUSTOMER
AKMAN DISCUSSION OF DC ONE
COUNTERACTIVE.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE HAS
INTRODUCED A SET OF HOUSE BILLS
THAT ARE COLLECTIVELY KNOWN AS
DRIVE SAFE THAT STANDS FOR
SAFETY ACCESS, FREEDOM AND
ECONOMY AND THE PURPOSE
OF THESE BILLS TO RESTORE
MICHIGAN'S PRE 2008 PRACTICE
OF ALLOWING RESIDENTS TO OBTAIN
A MICHIGAN DRIVER'S LICENSE AND
STATE ID CARD REGARDLESS
OF THEIR ABILITY TO DEMONSTRATE
U.S. CITIZENSHIP OR IMMIGRATION
STATUS.
IT'S IN OUR COLLECTIVE INTEREST
THAT ALL MICHIGAN DRIVERS ARE
TRAINED, SCREENED, TESTED, MADE
FAMILIAR WITH MICHIGAN DRIVING
REGULATIONS AND ALSO HAVE
ACCESS TO PURCHASE AUTO
INSURANCE.
AND IN FACT THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION PASSED A RESOLUTION
IN SUPPORT OF THIS A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO AND IT SEEMS LIKE
IT GOT A LITTLE BIT LOST IN THE
SHUFFLE.
SO THIS RESOLUTION URGES THE
MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE TO PASS
DRIVE SAFE MICHIGAN.
IF IT PASSED, THIS WOULD BE
JOINING 19 STATES AND THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA THAT HAVE
ALREADY ENACTED LAWS TO ALLOW
UNDOCUMENTED RESIDENTS AND
OTHERS WHO DEMONSTRATE THEIR
LAWFUL PRESIDENT'S PRESENCE TO
OBTAIN DRIVER'S LICENSES.
AND I GUESS YOU KNOW, IN
CLOSING LAW ENFORCEMENT AND
OTHER STATES VOICED THEIR
SUPPORT FOR THIS BECAUSE IT
ALLOWS THEM TO FOCUS ON OTHER
IMPORTANT PUBLIC SAFETY ISSUES.
FAR LESS PEOPLE ARE FOUND
GUILTY OF ILLEGALLY DRIVING.
THERE'S DRAMATIC REDUCTIONS IN
UNINSURED DRIVERS AND A
REDUCTION IN HIT AND RUN
CRASHES.
IN CLOSING, I'D LIKE TO THANK
MOLLY CLAMAN, FORMER
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONER FOR
REIGNITING THIS ISSUE AND THE
ADVOCATES THAT WE THE PEOPLE
OF MICHIGAN WHO HELPED CRAFT
THIS RESOLUTION.
I HOPE YOU'LL JOIN ME IN
SUPPORTING THIS RESOLUTION
CALLING THE MICHIGAN
LEGISLATURE TO PASS THE SENATE
BILLS FURTHER DISCUSSION
CANCEROUS ON SO THESE BILLS
INTRODUCED BACK IN 2021 WITH
STATE SENATOR STEPHANIE BEING
SENATOR BRINGS REPRESENTATIVE
COOPER AND REPRESENTATIVE HURD
AND I'M REALLY GLAD THAT YOU'VE
BROUGHT THIS UP AS A REMINDER
GIVEN THAT WHILE WE HAVE A
MAJORITY IN THE LEGISLATURE
THERE SHOULD BE MOVEMENT ON
THIS FOR ONLY THREE YEARS AFTER
THIS WAS FIRST INTRODUCED.
AND IF FOLKS ARE UNFAMILIAR
WITH THIS ISSUE, IT WAS
ACTUALLY NOT A REQUIREMENT.
CITIZENSHIP WAS NOT A
REQUIREMENT FOR A LICENSE A
STATE ID AND THEN IN DECEMBER
OF 2007, ATTORNEY GENERAL
MICHAEL ISSUED A NEW OPINION
THAT REVERSED THAT FINDING SO
WHERE OUR STATE WAS PRETTY OK
WITH HAVING FOLKS OR RESIDENTS
HAVE DRIVER'S LICENSES UNTIL
THEN, NOW WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO REVERSE THAT.
SO THANK YOU FOR REMINDING US
THAT WE CAN DO GOOD THINGS WITH
A MAJORITY.
COUNCILMAN GARCIA, THANK YOU.
MAYOR TAYLOR AND I ALSO JUST
WANT TO EXPRESS THANKS TO MY
COUNCIL COLLEAGUES THIS IS SUCH
AN IMPORTANT ISSUE AND I WANTED
TO ALSO GIVE APPRECIATION TO
THE MICHIGAN FORD COALITION
WHICH IS MADE UP OF MICHIGAN
UNITED AND MICHIGAN AND
MICHIGAN IMMIGRATION RIGHTS
COALITION.
WE THE PEOPLE I KNOW THAT
THEY'VE BEEN SPEARHEADING THIS
FOR SOME TIME.
SO YEAH, IT'S IT'S A REALLY
IMPORTANT THING.
AND I ALSO THINK THAT WE DID
SOMETHING REALLY GREAT WHEN WE
PASSED OUR BAN ON
DISCRIMINATING AGAINST YDS AND
SPECIFICALLY IT WAS A COUNTY
ISSUE IDS AND EVEN YOU KNOW
THAT DOESN'T GIVE YOU THE
ABILITY TO DRIVE.
IT DID ALLOW IMMIGRANTS
REGARDLESS OF STATUS TO GAIN
THINGS LIKE ACCESS TO FOOD FOOD
VOUCHER PROGRAMS OR PARTICIPATE
IN THEIR CHILD'S SCHOOL.
SO WE'RE ON THE RIGHT TRACK AND
I'M GLAD THAT WE ARE WE ARE
SUPPORTING THE DISCUSSION ALL
FAVOR.
OH, IS PROOF D.C. TO RESOLUTION
FOR COMMUNITY EVENTS, FUND
DISBURSEMENTS IN THE FISCAL
YEAR 2025 BUDGET MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL ON BRITISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
COUNCIL MY RADIO.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
I LIKE TO ALWAYS GIVE THIS A
LITTLE BIT OF A SHOUT OUT
BECAUSE IT'S ONE OF THOSE
AMAZING
THINGS THAT WE GET TO
DO EVERY YEAR WHERE WE USE A
PORTION OF OUR BUDGET TO HELP
TO HELP COVER SOME OF THE COSTS
THAT WOULD NORMALLY BE INCURRED
FOR A NUMBER OF REALLY BELOVED
COMMUNITY EVENTS THAT HAPPENED
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH RUNNING THOSE
EVENTS.
SOME OF THOSE ARE CITY COSTS AS
YOU ARE SHUTTING DOWN STREETS
AND DOING TRASH AND THINGS LIKE
THAT AND AND THIS NINETY FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLARS THAT WE BUDGET
EVERY YEAR GETS TO GO BACK INTO
THE COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS,
THE NONPROFITS THAT ARE HOSTING
ALL OF THESE EVENTS TO HELP TO
SUPPORT THEIR WORK.
AND SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
WILL POINT OUT IS OBVIOUSLY AS
YOU'RE LOOKING THROUGH THE
LIST, THE AWKWARD TIMING
OF THIS MEANS A LOT OF THESE
EVENTS HAVE ALREADY HAPPENED
THIS YEAR.
SO THEY ARE COMING AS
REIMBURSEMENTS BECAUSE THIS
WITHIN OUR FISCAL YEAR.
BUT THERE ARE A NUMBER OF THEM
STILL TO COME.
AND SO THE FACT THAT THE CITY
OF MANITOBA GETS TO PARTNER AND
SPONSOR SOME OF THESE EVENTS BY
CONTRIBUTING IS I THINK A GREAT
THING.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO EVERYONE'S
SUPPORT FOR THE DISCUSSION WHEN
FAVRE POSED IT IS APPROVED DC
THREE RESOLUTION TO CONSIDER
ALLOWING MORE FLEXIBILITY FOR
HOME OCCUPATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS BY SONG SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
COUNTS OF FIRST OF ALL THIS
RESOLUTION CAME ABOUT FROM A
SERIES OF CONVERSATIONS I'VE
HAD WITH RESIDENTS ACROSS THE
CITY AND IN MY WORK SUPPORTING
SERVICE AGENCIES.
THERE'S A REAL STRUGGLE FOR
LOCAL HOME BUSINESSES TO
CAPTURE MORE BUSINESS GIVEN HOW
LIMITED OUR ORDINANCE OUR HOME
OCCUPANCY ORDINANCES ARE.
SO I HAD REACHED OUT TO STAFF
AND WE HAD SOME REALLY GOOD
DISCUSSIONS TRYING TO TAKE A
LOOK AT WHAT'S BEING DONE AND
RALLY IN NEW ORLEANS PORTLAND
AND THE IDEA WAS HOW CAN WE
ENCOURAGE MORE INNOVATION AND
ENTREPRENEURS WHO ARE DOING
SMALL BUSINESSES BUT DON'T HAVE
THE ACCESS TO CAPITAL FOR
COMMERCIAL KITCHENS, COMMERCIAL
RENTS.
>> SO IT WAS REALLY TAKEN BY
THE OPPORTUNITY TO SUPPORT
MICRO ENTERPRISES AND GIVEN
THAT WE'VE DEDICATED RESOURCES
AND TIME FOR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT HERE, IT SEEMED
LIKE WE WERE ON THIS PATH TO
UNDERSTANDING WHAT THAT
POSSIBILITY MIGHT LOOK LIKE
WITH YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT A LOT
OF IMMIGRANT FOLKS WHO ARE
MAKING FOOD AT HOME AND SELLING
IT BUT WITHOUT A REAL PRESENCE
WITH OR WITHOUT WITH ONLY ONE
EMPLOYER EMPLOYEE WHICH IS
THEMSELVES SO I REALLY
APPRECIATE THE SUPPORT FROM MY
COLLEAGUES.
I THINK THERE WAS ONE REALLY
EXCELLENT POINT WHICH IS THAT
COMMUNITY WITH OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS WRAPPING
UP AND THE TIMING OF THIS
RESOLUTION DOESN'T REALLY MATCH
WITH WHAT COULD POTENTIALLY
COME OUT OF COMMITTEE
CONVERSATIONS.
SO WE HAVE A COUPLE AMENDMENTS
WE'D LIKE TO WORK ON AND SO I'D
LIKE TO MOVE TO POSTPONE THIS
VOTE UNTIL THE SEPTEMBER
MEETING SO THAT WE CAN WORK ON
THOSE AMENDMENTS FIRST MEETING
IN SEPTEMBER THAT IS.
>> YES.
IS THERE A SECOND I HAVE I
CAN'T REMEMBER VOTES IN
DISCUSSION OF THE POSTPONEMENT
.
COUNCILOR BRIGS.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON BRINGING THIS
FORWARD.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT
RESOLUTION.
I GUESS AND COULD SPEAK MORE TO
THAT THE SUBSTANCE OF IT AT THE
NEXT MEETING JUST PROCEDURALLY
I JUST WANTED TO DOUBLE CHECK.
WOULD IT BE BETTER TO PROVIDE
SOME OF THOSE AMENDMENTS NOW SO
THAT THERE'S OPPORTUNITY TO
CONSIDER THEM OVER THE COURSE
IN BETWEEN PERIODS OF TIME?
WHERE DO YOU WANT TO JUST
RETURN?
I'D RATHER JUST REINTRODUCE IT
AND THEN WITH THE AMENDMENTS
SOUNDS FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE POSTPONEMENT ON FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS POSTPONED WITH
THE DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF A CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
WE DO NOT.
WE HAVE BEFORE THE SUPPORTIVE
COMMUNITY OF COMMUNICATIONS.
I ASSUME THERE ARE PETITIONS
AND REFERRAL SOMEWHERE IN HERE
IF A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE COLLECTION PROBABLY BY
COUNCIL BECAUSE WE HAVE BEEN
TAKEN BY COUNCIL NERDISH
DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT IN FAVOR O OPPOSED IS
APPROVED.
>> I SAW THE HANDS AND I
THOUGHT FOR SOME REASON THAT
PEOPLE ALL WANTED TO SPEAK
ABOUT THE CLERK'S SUPPORT AT
ONCE AND IT WAS MADNESS.
YES.
DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNICATION TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY?
>> WE DO NOT.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW MAY HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
HARRISON.
SECOND MY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED